docs: add how-to-guide for ambient migration (#40)
canonical/charmed-kubeflow-documentation: docs/how-to/manage/migrate-ambient.rst

.. _migrate_ambient:

Migrate to Istio Ambient Mesh
==============================

This guide describes how to migrate Charmed Kubeflow (CKF) from Istio sidecar mode to Istio Ambient Mesh.

`Istio Ambient Mesh`_ is a data plane mode that provides secure communication between services without injecting sidecar proxies into application pods. 

.. warning::
   This migration process involves removing and redeploying several critical components. 
   Ensure you have a backup of your deployment before proceeding. See :ref:`back_up` for more details.

.. note::
   During the migration, your Kubeflow deployment will experience downtime as components are removed and redeployed. 
   Plan the migration during a maintenance window.

---------------------
Requirements
---------------------

* A running CKF 1.11 deployment with sidecar-based Istio.
* Admin access to the Kubernetes (K8s) cluster where CKF is deployed.
* Juju admin access to the ``kubeflow`` model.
* ``kubectl`` CLI tool installed and configured.

---------------------
Migration process
---------------------

> Configure Cilium (Canonical Kubernetes only)

Reviewer: issue: we have conflicting CI setups for Istio on Cilium, some referring to the link you put here and others, like [this one](https://github.com/canonical/istio-operators/blob/main/.github/workflows/ci.yaml#L153-L158), referring to [Cilium's docs](https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/network/servicemesh/istio/) instead, which seem to be more general and with an additional configuration step - should we go with the broader one?

   juju integrate tensorboard-controller:gateway-metadata istio-ingress-k8s:gateway-metadata

.. code-block:: bash

   juju refresh tensorboards-web-app
   juju integrate tensorboards-web-app:service-mesh istio-beacon-k8s:service-mesh
   juju integrate tensorboards-web-app:istio-ingress-route istio-ingress-k8s:istio-ingress-route

Remove sidecar containers from user namespaces
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After migrating to Ambient Mesh, delete the ML Pipeline pods from existing user namespaces to remove the old sidecar containers. 
The pods will be automatically recreated by their deployments without sidecars:

.. code-block:: bash

   kubectl delete pod -l app=ml-pipeline-ui-artifact -n <user-namespace>
   kubectl delete pod -l app=ml-pipeline-visualizationserver -n <user-namespace>

Replace ``<user-namespace>`` with the actual user namespace name (for example, ``admin``).

---------------------
Verify the migration
---------------------

After completing the migration, verify that all components are operational:

1. Check that all applications are in the ``active`` state:

.. code-block:: bash

   juju status

> 2. Verify that the Kubeflow Dashboard is accessible through the ingress gateway.

Reviewer: suggestion (non-blocking): I would rephrase it to something on these lines because it otherwise seems they have to mess with the gateway themselves:
```suggestion
2. Verify that the Kubeflow Dashboard is accessible, meaning that the ingress gateway allows for traffic.
```

`Istio Ambient Mesh`_ is a data plane mode that provides secure communication between services without injecting sidecar proxies into application pods. 

.. note::
   Istio Ambient Mesh support is currently available in the **edge** channel. 
   The stable channel release will be available soon. 

>    This guide uses edge channel versions for the migration.

Reviewer: nitpick: "edge" is the risk, not the channel
